# Volume_Control_Using_Hand_Gestures

Hand gestures is the powerful communication medium for Human Computer Interaction (HCI).Several input devices are available for interaction with computer, such as keyboard, mouse, joystick and touch screen, but these devices does not provide easier way to communicate. In this, the system which is proposed will consists of desktop and laptop interface, hand gesture can be used by the users need to wear data gloves also can use the web camera or separate cameras for recording the hand gestures. The first and most important step toward any hand gesture recognition system is to implement a hand tracking system. Some Sensor devices are generally used in DataGlove based methods for digitizing hand and finger motions into multi parametric data. Other sensors used in this system will collect hand configuration and hand movements.
Hand gesture recognition is a system that can recognize a hand motion in a real-time video in everyday life. Hand gestures are classified according to their subject of interest. One of the goal in this implementation is to design a system for hand gesture recognition. One of the most critical issues in computer vision is the task of recognizing hand motions. Human computer interaction (HCI) systems that entail hand processing tasks such as hand detection and hand gesture recognition have become more advanced as information and media technology has progressed. Detecting and locating the hand in real-time footage from the webcam is the initial stage in any hand processing system. Because of the variety in position, orientation, placement and scale, detecting a hand might be difficult. Variability is also aided by the varying levels of light in the room. Hand gesture recognition often requires numerous levels of processing, including image acquisition, pre-processing, feature extraction, and gesture identification. Using a webcam, image acquisition entails recording an image in a video frame by frame. The collected images are subjected to color filtering, smoothing as part of the image pre-processing. Feature extraction is a technique for extracting features from a hand image, such as hand outlines, whereas gesture recognition is a technique for extracting features and recognizing hand gestures. Designing a hand gesture recognition system is a difficult task that comprises two major issues. The first is the detection of a person's hand. A webcam is used to detect the user's hand in real-time video. In this acquisition some issue arises such as inconsistencies in brightness, noise,resolution, and contrast. To identify the gestures, the technique involves segmentation and edge detection and with help of the openCV module we obtain the hand gesture and are able to control the volume.
